Rain hit the windows with a noise like the crackling of the logs on the fire. The view from the house at Aikro, down the steep wooded slope to the fjord and across it to the mountains on the other side, was warped and distorted by the water running down the glass, and sometimes low clouds flowed round the turrets and couplers of Gerge's home like wet smoke. Jey Meristinu took a large wrought-iron poker from the hearth, and putting one booted foot up on the elaborately carved stone of the fire-surround, and one pale brown hand on the rope-like edge of the massive mantelpiece, stabbed at one of the spitting logs lying burning in the grate. Sparks flew up the tall chimney to meet the falling rain. Chamlis Amalkne was floating near the window, watching the dull grey clouds. The wooden door set into one corner of the room swung open, and Gerge appeared, bearing a tray with hot drinks. He wore a loose, light robe over dark baggy trues, slippers made small slapping noises on his feet as he crossed the room. He put the tray down, looked at Jey. Thought of a move yet? Jey crossed over to look morosely at the game board, shaking her head. No, she said, I think you've won. Look, Gerge said, adjusting a few of the pieces. His hands moved quickly like a magician's over the board, though Jey followed every move. She nodded. Yes, I see, but... She tapped a hex Gerge had repositioned one of her pieces on, so giving her a potentially winning formation. Only if I'd double secured that blocking piece two moves earlier. She sat down on the couch, taking her drink with her. Raising her glass to the quietly smiling man on the opposite couch, she said, cheers, to the victor. You almost won, Gerge told her. Forty-four moves, you're getting very good. Relatively, Jey said, drinking. Only relatively. She lay back on the deep couch while Gerge put the pieces back to their starting positions, and Chamlis and Malkney drifted over to float not quite between them. You know, Jey said, looking at the ornate ceiling, I always like the way this house smells, Gerge. She turned to look at the drone, don't you, Chamlis? The machine's aura field dipped briefly to one side, a drone shrug. Yes, probably because the wood our host is burning is Bonice. It was developed millennia ago by the old Bavarian civilization, specifically for its fragrance when ignited. Yes, well, it's a nice smell, Jey said, getting up and going back to the windows. She shook her head. Sure as shit rains a lot here, though, Gerge. It's the mountains, the man explained. Jey glanced round, one eyebrow arched. You don't say? Gerge smiled and smooths one hand over his neatly trimmed beard. How is the landscaping going, Jey? I don't want to talk about it. She shook her head at the continuing downpour. What weather? She tossed her drink back. No wonder you live by yourself, Gerge. That isn't the rain, Jey, Gerge said. That's me. Nobody can stand to live with me for long. She means, Chambliss said, that he couldn't stand to live for long with anybody. I'd believe either, Jey said, coming back to the couch again. She sat cross-legged on it and played with one of the pieces on the game board. What did you think of the match, Chambliss? You have reached the likely limits of your technical ability, but your flair continues to develop. I doubt you'll ever beat Gerge, though. Hey, Jey said, pretending injured pride. I'm just a junior. I'll improve. She tapped one set of fingernails against the other and made a tutting noise with her mouth. Like I'm told I will at landscaping. You're having problems, Chambliss said. Jey looked as though she hadn't heard for a moment, then sighed, lay back on the couch. Yeah, that asshole Elristrid and that prissy fucking prayer shiplail machine. They're so unadventurous, they just won't listen. What won't they listen to? Ideas, Jey shouted at the ceiling. Something different, something not so goddamn conservative for a change. Just because I'm young, they won't pay attention. I thought they were pleased with your work, Chambliss said. Gerge was sitting back in his couch, swirling the drink in his glass round and just watching Jey. They like me to do all the easy stuff, Jey said, sounding suddenly tired. Stick up a range or two, carve out a couple of lakes. But I'm talking about the overall plan, real, radical stuff. All we're doing is building just another next door plate. Could be one of a million anywhere in the galaxy. What's the point of that? So people can live on it, Chambliss suggested, fuels Rosie. People can live anywhere, Jey said, levering herself up from the couch to look at the drone with her bright green eyes. There's no shortage of plates. I'm talking about art. What did you have in mind? Gerge asked. How about, Jey said, magnetic fields under the base material and magnetized islands floating over oceans? No ordinary land at all. Just great floating lumps of rock with streams and lakes and vegetation and a few intrepid people. Doesn't that sound more exciting? More exciting than what? Gerge asked. More exciting than this. Maristanu leapt up and went over to the window. She tapped the ancient pane. Look at that. You might as well be on a planet, seas and hills and rain. Wouldn't you rather live on a floating island, sailing through the air over the water? What if the islands collide? Chambliss asked. What if they do? Jey turned to look at the man and the machine. It was getting still darker outside and the room lights are slowly brightening. She shrugged. Anyway, you could make it so they didn't. But don't you think it's a wonderful idea? Why should one old woman and a machine be able to stop me? Well, Chambliss said, I know the Prier-Chip-Layle machine. And if it thought your idea was good, it wouldn't just ignore it. It's had a lot of experience and, yeah, Jey said, too much experience. That isn't possible, young lady, the drone said. Jey Maristinu took a deep breath and seemed about to argue, but just spread her arms wide and rolled her eyes and turned back to the window. We'll see, she said. The afternoon, which had been steadily darkening until then, was suddenly lit up on the far side of the fjord by a bright splash of sunlight filtering through the clouds and the easing rain. The room slowly filled with a watery glow and the house lights dimmed again. The wind moved the tops of the dripping trees. Ah, Jey said, stretching her back and flexing her arms. Not to worry, she inspected the landscape outside critically. Hell, I'm going for a run, she announced. She headed for the door in the corner of the room, pulling off first one boot, then the other, throwing the waistcoat over a chair and unbuttoning her blouse. You'll see, she wagged a finger at Gergely and Chambliss. Floating islands, their time has come. Chambliss said nothing. Gergely looked skeptical. Jey left. Chambliss went to the window. It watched the girl, down to a pair of shorts now, run out along the path leading down from the house between the lawns and the forest. She waved once without looking back and disappeared into the woods. Chambliss flickered its fields in response, even though Jey couldn't see. She's handsome, it said. Gergely sat back in the couch. She makes me feel old. Don't you start feeling sorry for yourself, Chambliss said, floating back from the window. Gergely looked at the hearthstones. Everything seems gray at the moment, Chambliss. Sometimes I start to think I'm repeating myself, that even new games are just old ones in disguise. And that nothing's worth playing for anyway. Gergely, Chambliss said, matter-of-factly, and did something it rarely did. Actually settling physically into the couch, letting it take its weight. Settle up. Are we talking about games or life? Gergely put his dark-curled head back and laughed. Games, Chambliss went on, have been your life. If they're starting to pool, I'd understand you might not be so happy with anything else. Maybe I'm just disillusioned with games, Gergely said, turning a carved game piece over in his hands. I used to think that context didn't matter. A good game was a good game, and there was a purity about manipulating rules that translated perfectly from society to society.